## Turing Incomplete Languages

  In my previous blog, I learned about Alan Turing and his work as well as his legacy on programming languages, Turing Complete languages. However, I never thought to think about incomplete Turing languages and even so to consider them useful. In Neil Mitchell's blog he talk's about the Turing Incomplete languages and gives Haskell as an example. Now I actually don't agree with this, but again I am still learning. 
  
  To be truely Turing complete I've learned, is to terminate, however in that case, no computer is ever going to be Turing Complete. For example, say there is a program that doubles numbers. Now that can and will go on and on till it runs out of space or memory. Give it a for loop and bound, then it won't go on forever and will terminate. Most people say that is still Turing complete. Say we have this magical computer tho, then the program with the bound is not Turing complete. 
  
  In the blog, Mitchell states that turing incomplete programs are simpler. One of the rules for a programming language to be turing complete is to terminate while taking runtime and memory into consideration as well. While he states his claims, they make me think that according to his rules of getting rid of recursion and loops, then the programming languages we thought to have been Turing complete such as Pytin or Java are Turing incomplete now. 
  
  The comments of the blog point out his inaccuraccies as well. One of the examples that user Craig and Clement gave and that I was slightly familar with was Dafny. Clement said that Dafny is Turing Incomplete because of the termination rule and that dependently typed languages typically have much more sophisticated termination checkers than just banning recursion and unbounded loops. Craig rebuttaled saying that Dafny isn't Turing incomplete, you can prove not only termination, but other useful preconditions, postconditions, and loop invariants, and you can write them in a mostly obvious way. The code becomes more readable, because what it does is clearly spelled out.
  
  What do I really think about all this. In the beginning of the blog, Mitchell said Turing Incomplete programs are easier, but if that is the caes, why are Turing incomplete programs used less frequently and the first programs programmers are taught are usually Pyton, Java, C++, etc.? Maybe because when you are starting to program, you typically are not worried with creating a program that will take up all the memory and space on your computer. The comments are interesting to read and see hoe other programmers annalyze the smaller programming languages. One thing I did notice is that while Haskell was a split language, all say Lambda Calc is Turing complete. 
  
  
